# Accuracy, Sensitivity, and Scenario Analysis

The accuracy of estimates made using CatCost is highly dependent on the quality of the input information provided by users and on the relevance of its methods to the real industrial manufacturing procedures for a given material. The latter consideration of relevance means that CatCost estimates on established catalyst types such as zeolites will have a known and lower level of cost uncertainty than estimates on pre-commercial materials for which the industrial synthesis procedures may not yet exist. For relatively established catalyst types using the CapEx &amp; OpEx Factors method described in Chapter 7, CatCost estimates can be considered to fall into the &quot;preliminary&quot; or &quot;study-grade&quot; level of estimates as described in cost estimating literature.5,6 This level is associated with an accuracy on the order of ± 15 % up to ± 40 % of total catalyst cost. However, _no warranty is made_ as to the accuracy of CatCost estimates. The user is advised to focus on insights, such as identification of &quot;problem&quot; steps or materials for targeted R&amp;D, the effect of process improvements, or comparisons between materials, rather than obtaining a single number. Overall, the philosophy of CatCost is to quickly provide estimates that are accurate for R&amp;D decisions, while including flexible estimating techniques that power users can apply to customize and improve estimates.

Power users interested in obtaining greater accuracy are encouraged to customize CatCost estimates, for example replacing capital and operating factors from textbook sources with their own proprietary data. The Excel version is specifically designed for customization; while some sections of the workbook have been protected to reduce mishaps, there is no password and users should feel free to adjust the formulas and methods to adapt CatCost to their needs.

Sensitivity or scenario analysis, in which the effect of various input uncertainties (e.g., a range of possible prices for a raw material) on the uncertainty in overall outcomes (catalyst price), is a key tool in developing quantitative cost insight. Sensitivity analysis has been implemented in CatCost by inclusion of sensitivity input fields – for many inputs in CatCost, the user may enter not just a Base scenario value but also a Low and High scenario. In Excel, these inputs may be shown by use of +/– icons at the top of the screen along with dark red text indicating the presence of sensitivity inputs that can be expanded. In the web version, the sensitivity inputs may be shown or hidden using the &quot;Edit&quot; mode selector at the top right of the browser window, from which either &quot;Simplified&quot; or &quot;Sensitivity Analysis&quot; mode can be selected. The &quot;Edit&quot; mode selector also shows which mode is currently selected. In order to run a sensitivity analysis for an Excel estimate, convert it to a JSON file and import into the web tool using the CatCost Data Tools (see CatCost website).
