# Global Inputs and Price Scaling: The 1 Inputs Module and the ChemPPI, CEPCI, and UnitConv Libraries

The **1 Inputs** module contains basic parameters that are used throughout CatCost to perform an estimate. These parameters include an estimate name, basis year, and output mass unit in the Global Inputs section, as well as some processing cost inputs discussed later (TODO: link) in this guide. The Basis Year instructs CatCost to determine the cost to produce catalyst in that year, using cost indices to escalate the various cost components in CatCost&#39;s libraries to match costs in that year. Some users may simply want to choose the current year (e.g., 2021) for their estimate (years 1984–2021 are selectable in v1.1.0), while others may want to choose a specific year to match other technoeconomic analyses or a government analysis standard, and still others may want to compare to historical price data. See below for more details on the cost escalation methods. The Output Mass Unit determines what unit to use for unit prices (e.g., $0.70/kg catalyst) and also sets the units of other input fields throughout CatCost. Processing Cost Estimation Inputs on **1 Inputs** are described in (TODO: link to processing cost inputs Chapter 5).

_Note: Using the other modules without first completing **1 Inputs** will give unexpected results._ Furthermore, the interpretation of information entered later on in a catalyst estimate depends on entries in **1 Inputs**; therefore, if settings on **1 Inputs** are made after entering information in later modules, the user is advised to check over the estimate carefully. For example, if the user selects an Output Mass Unit of &quot;kg,&quot; the Catalyst Mass field on **2 Materials** will have units of kg as well. If the user then enters 1.5 kg for Catalyst Mass on **2 Materials** but then changes the Output Mass Unit to &quot;ton,&quot; CatCost will interpret the Catalyst Mass as 1.5 ton instead of the 1.5 kg the user intended.

Cost escalation in CatCost is accomplished using two cost indices: the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Chemical Producer Price Index,(TODO ref 7) incorporated in CatCost as the **ChemPPI** library, and the _Chemical Engineering_ Plant Cost Index, available from _Chemical Engineering_ magazine and other sources(TODO ref 8) and incorporated in CatCost as the **CEPCI** library.

Automated unit conversions are also incorporated into CatCost using the **UnitConv** library, which allows quantities like raw materials consumption in the synthesis to be entered naturally and automatically converted by the tool.

As time passes from the date a CatCost version has been released, some information must be updated for the tool to remain functional. We will attempt to update each of these items in future maintenance releases but the user is encouraged to check them when performing an estimate:

- ChemPPI and CEPCI must be updated in order to accommodate price entries and selection of a basis year (for v1.1.0, the years 1984–2021 are included)
- The direct labor rate on **3e OpEx** must match current conditions
- The factors on **3d CapEx** and **3e OpEx** should be relevant for many years, but may be updated as industry conditions change
- Libraries like the Step Library, Equipment Library, and Spent Catalyst Library should be robust on the order of 10 years (and are scaled via the appropriate price index to whatever basis year is selected) but should be checked by the user and/or updated with new information from textbooks, publications, etc. if accuracy is critical.
