# Notice and Disclaimer

The National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) is operated for the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) by Alliance for Sustainable Energy, LLC ("Alliance").

## NOTICE

CatCost&trade; Copyright &copy;2018-21 Alliance for Sustainable Energy, LLC All Rights Reserved

This computer software was produced by Alliance for Sustainable Energy, LLC under Contract No. DE-AC36-08GO28308 with the U.S. Department of Energy. For 5 years from the date permission to assert copyright was obtained, the Government is granted for itself and others acting on its behalf a non-exclusive, paid-up, irrevocable worldwide license in this software to reproduce, prepare derivative works, and perform publicly and display publicly, by or on behalf of the Government. There is provision for the possible extension of the term of this license. Subsequent to that period or any extension granted, the Government is granted for itself and others acting on its behalf a non-exclusive, paid-up, irrevocable worldwide license in this software to reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, perform publicly and display publicly, and to permit others to do so. The specific term of the license can be identified by inquiry made to Alliance for Sustainable Energy, LLC or DOE. NEITHER ALLIANCE FOR SUSTAINABLE ENERGY, LLC, THE UNITED STATES NOR THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY, NOR ANY OF THEIR EMPLOYEES, MAKES ANY WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, OR ASSUMES ANY LEGAL LIABILITY OR RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS, OR USEFULNESS OF ANY DATA, APPARATUS, PRODUCT, OR PROCESS DISCLOSED, OR REPRESENTS THAT ITS USE WOULD NOT INFRINGE PRIVATELY OWNED RIGHTS.

## DISCLAIMER

Results generated by use of this Software are dependent on many variables, including the quality of the data entered by the user and any assumptions made by the user in relation to data inputs.  Accordingly, DOE, NREL, and ALLIANCE cannot guarantee any results generated by use of the Software and user is entirely responsible for the results and any reliance on the results.  User shall not claim that DOE/NREL/ALLIANCE authenticate or otherwise agree with the results generated by the Software.

Unless data or software is explicitly made available on this server under separate license terms (in which case such license terms shall apply only to such data or software), access to or use of any data or software made available on this server ("Data") shall impose the following obligations on the user, and use of the Data constitutes user's agreement to these terms. The user is granted the right, without any fee or cost, to use or copy the Data, provided that this entire notice appears in all copies of the Data. Further, the user agrees to credit DOE/NREL/ALLIANCE in any publication that results from the use of the Data. The names DOE/NREL/ALLIANCE, however, may not be used in any advertising or publicity to endorse or promote any products or commercial entities unless specific written permission is obtained from DOE/NREL/ ALLIANCE. The user also understands that DOE/NREL/ALLIANCE are not obligated to provide the user with any support, consulting, training or assistance of any kind with regard to the use of the Data or to provide the user with any updates, revisions or new versions thereof. DOE, NREL, and ALLIANCE do not guarantee or endorse any results generated by use of the Data, and user is entirely responsible for the results and any reliance on the results or the Data in general. 
    
USER AGREES TO INDEMNIFY DOE/NREL/ALLIANCE AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES, AFFILIATES, OFFICERS, AGENTS, AND EMPLOYEES AGAINST ANY CLAIM OR DEMAND, INCLUDING REASONABLE ATTORNEYS' FEES, RELATED TO USER'S USE OF THE DATA. THE DATA ARE PROVIDED BY DOE/NREL/ALLIANCE "AS IS," AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. DOE/NREL/ALLIANCE ASSUME NO LEGAL LIABILITY OR RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS, OR USEFULNESS OF THE DATA, OR REPRESENT THAT ITS USE WOULD NOT INFRINGE PRIVATELY OWNED RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL DOE/NREL/ALLIANCE BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO CLAIMS ASSOCIATED WITH THE LOSS OF DATA OR PROFITS, THAT MAY RESULT FROM AN ACTION IN CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS CLAIM THAT ARISES OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE ACCESS, USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE DATA.
